So time for some styling,
let's add some padding around the GridView. That's pretty easy because the GridView itself has a padding
argument and there, you can pass good old EdgeInsets.all maybe of 25 to add a padding of 25 in all
directions around the GridView and we can add const here to again make sure that this never is rebuilt.
With this simple change,
now we have some spacing around our categories, which doesn't look too bad. As a next step, I want to
work on a general theme and also bring in my own font. For this in the project,
I'll first of all add a new folder, assets
and again that's just one possible way of naming this. In there,
I'll add a fonts folder and attached, you find a zip file with some fonts where I'll use some of them
in this module.
So simply drag and drop these extracted fonts in there, as you see again, I got two different fonts here,
Raleway and RobotoCondensed in various versions, in a bold, very bold version, regular version and so
on
and as you learned we now need to register these fonts in a pubspec.yaml file in order to use them.
So in the pubspec.yaml file, you can stroll to the area where you have some dummy fonts code set
up already
and now we can adjust this for Raleway for example, which is one of the fonts.
It can be found in these assets/fonts folder and there, we have a regular version of it but we'll
also have a bold and very bold, a so-called black version of it.
So that's the normal version but then we also have assets/fonts/Raleway-bold here
and that will have weight of 700 and now we can copy that and add it one more time
but now we can point at Raleway-Black.ttf which is another file we have in there and Raleway-Black
gives us a font with a weight of 900, which is even bolder or thicker than this one.
Now that's one font,
let's copy it and add another one,
make sure you got the indentation correct here by the way, in case you're not sure, you can always download
my source code which is attached to multiple lectures per module and always to the last lecture of each
module to compare my pubspec.yaml file with yours for example because indentation really matters
in this file and can mess up your application if it's wrong.
And with that, let's add the second font, RobotoCondensed
and there, we also go to the assets and fonts folder but then it's named RobotoCondensed-Regular.ttf
and then we also have a bold version there,
we also have a light version there,
so let's add light here. For light,
the weight is 300 and we have yet another version,
so let's copy this one and that's actually the italic version and there, we have no weight but we
have a special style, the italic style.
So these are now all the fonts registered,
now we can start using them and let's start using them in the main.dart file. In there,
we set up our theme and right now the theme is pretty simple, it's just the blue color. Of course,
I'll leave it totally up to you which theme you want to use.
I however will not use blue as a primary swatch but pink and as an accent color, I will go for amber
because I think that pink-amber combination really doesn't look that bad. I'll also change the canvas
color to a custom grayish look from the RGBO constructor here on color and there, I will use
values 255, 254, 229 and 1
and of course, these are just some colours I came up with,
you can definitely adjust this and tweak this to your personal likings.
I want to set a default font family of Raleway, that's one of the fonts we added
and I also want to set up a general text theme here.
For that,
I'll use theme data light and then access the text theme there and then use copy with here, to again replace
some parts of the default text theme with my own settings.
Now you can always change whatever you want to change of course,
I want to change my body here,
both body1 and body2 to a text style where I override the color to a different color,
basically an almost black, very dark grey, with values of 20, 51, 51 and 1 used here in the RGBO
constructor and besides body1, let's do the same here for body2 and it's pure cosmetic of course,
you don't have to do that.
And I also want to adjust the title here and give that a text style, where I set the font size to let's
say 24 pixels and the font family to RobotoCondensed which is that other font we added. With
that, back in the category_item.dart file where we have a single item in our grid, for the title here, I want
to set this style to theme of context, getting access to the global theme,
textTheme.title to use my general title style for this title. Now since we added a font, quit your
running development process or your running app with this red square and simply restart it without
debugging, also here with start without debugging, I just use the shortcut to bring it back onto the
device but now with a new app bundle that includes the font files and with that, we should hopefully see
our new colors and new fonts in effect there.
So let's wait for that to finish and I'd say this doesn't look too bad. Of course, feel free to tweak
this to your requirements but I'm quite happy with that, though
there is one thing which I do want to change, is maybe bring down that title text theme a bit to 20
pixels instead of 24 and instead add a font weight of FontWeight.bold here, to make it a bit bolder,
yes I think that looks quite decent.
So with that, we have our categories here,
we have our categories screen set up. Now of course, we're all here because we want to be able to tap
on a category and then go to a different screen where we can see the recipes for that category.
So how do we make that work?